[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: I am a
lover of historical fiction.
It brings life's
dilemmas and the emotions
that drive them into
the historical themes,
so they come alive.
In Barbara Hand Clow's
new work of fiction,
"Revelations of
the Aquarian Age,"
a stark history of abuse
within the Catholic church,
extraordinarily wealthy ancient
bloodlines, and the process
of healing together in a
bold story of revelations.
This is a thing that
some other authors have
tried to do as well, which is to
weave together these incredibly
complex themes without having
your character assassinated,
which would happen if you
wrote it as non-fiction.
>>BARBARA HAND CLOW: Well,
there wouldn't be any characters
if it was non-fiction.
>>REGINA: I know.
There wouldn't be
any characters.
But I mean, even weaving the
themes together is challenging.
And you can do this
any way you want.
And it's a lovely journey.
It's a really interesting ride.
So first of all, before
we go any further,
let's talk about the first
book where we ended up,
"Revelations of
the Ruby Crystal,"
and how that led
us into this story.
>> HAND CLOW: Let's see.
So at the end of "Ruby
Crystal," Armando
has just met and fallen in love
with Jennifer, Simon's sister.
>>REGINA: And we're
going to go over them
again-- the key characters.
>> HAND CLOW: Yes.
So then when we go
into the second book,
this was the perfect
opportunity in a novel.
Because each novel has
to be a standalone.
So whenever new
character comes back,
you have to have the
background of that character--
not as much detail as in
the first book, of course.
So that gave me the
opportunity to have
"Aquarian Age" begin with
the wedding of Jennifer
and Armando.
So the novel opens
with the wedding.
And then all of the characters
come to the wedding.
>>REGINA: Well,
and, of course, we
love it, because it's in Italy.
[LAUGHING]
>> HAND CLOW: Oh, yeah.
And also, as far
as I could tell,
from talking to people who
had read "Ruby Crystal,"
they were just so happy to
have the characters back again.
Because people have become
fond of the characters.
And that's the goal, as
far as I'm concerned.
Everybody has different
ideas about fiction.
But I think the most important
thing is the characters.
Because when you read complex
material or information
about a historical era, if you
do it through characterization,
the people who read
the book remember.
>>REGINA: It brings
the emotions in.
It brings in more
multi-dimensional memory,
so to speak.
>> HAND CLOW: That's right.
That's right.
And so that's one
of the reasons I
wanted to write fiction was
to have that extra kick.
And when you think
about it, if you
read a history of England,
English kings or whatever,
you can't remember anything.
But then once you read of a
fictional rendition of one
of those kings or
queen's life, you
remember it forever, basically.
>>REGINA: Absolutely--
and especially
if it's taken to the big
screen even more so, where
you have music
driving the emotions
and driving the points in.
>> HAND CLOW: Right.
And so my goal here was
to bring in some material
at the end of the
"Age of Pisces"
and going into "Aquarius"
that's truly significant for us,
as readers.
And so that's why I wanted
to create these characters.
But I didn't actually create
the characters, Regina.
They all came in one day.
May of 2011, they all came in.
And all I did was take
out my yellow pad.
And I wrote.
What came in was their names,
their ages, their careers,
their psychology.
And so they all came
in, except for one.
And one came in later.
So I don't know where
they came from exactly.
But they sure do
want to speak to us.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
It's a story that is trying to--
in a difficult time--
tell us about some
of the dysfunction
in the darkness that's been
hidden from humanity up
until now.
Which is now all the
whistleblowers are out,
and it's happening.
But still, I don't think
people have any understanding
of how ubiquitous one
of the problems that
is demonstrated here is.
And we'll get into that
when the time comes.
Meanwhile, the
interesting part is
that these characters,
each one of them,
is brilliant and has their
own area of expertise, which
allows them to introduce
different pieces of history
and psychology
into the storyline.
>> HAND CLOW:
Yeah, that's right.
And then, also, two
generations, too--
I wanted to have that
perspective of the older
generation dealing with people
who were in their 30s and 40s
and coping with
the level of change
that we're experiencing
on the planet right now.
So that's why there's
two generations.
>>REGINA: Well,
technically three.
Because you've got a
little one in there, too--
>> HAND CLOW: We've got
a little one coming.
>>REGINA: --that is
also exemplifying
the new consciousness, the super
sensitivity of the little ones
that are coming in this
particular energy field.
OK, so you mentioned
Armando a little while ago.
So let's talk about Armando, who
is one of the chief characters.
And one of the things that
comes up-- because this book
has areas of extreme
passion even sexuality.
Because again, that's
a part of our nature
that's been severely repressed.
And Armando, in
this story, is being
driven by a reptilian kind of
urge that moves through him.
So let's set Armando up in
this aspect of his being.
>> HAND CLOW: Armando is a key
player right in "Ruby Crystal."
And when the issue
of Armando came up,
I talked to my
daughter about it.
Because I said, Lizzie--
Lizzie is the
illustrator of the book.
So we can bring--
>>REGINA: Beautiful
illustrations.
>> HAND CLOW: --Lizzie
into this conversation.
So I said Lizzie, this is
what's going on with Armando.
And Lizzie knows what
a nice person I am.
And I'm a well-adjusted wife,
and mother, and member of my--
>>REGINA: You're a nice girl.
>> HAND CLOW: I'm
just a nice girl.
And Lizzie said, OK, Mom.
And Lizzie's a Scorpio.
And so Lizzie said,
no matter what you do,
Mom, make it really bad.
So I followed her advice.
I probably didn't need
to know that from her.
Because Armando, just for
me from the very beginning,
was really a real person.
And so in the
first book, Armando
is a very, very bad guy.
And then he goes
through a lot of therapy
and comes to another
level, finally to the point
where he's able, 10 years
after a lot of therapy,
to actually meet a woman
and end up marrying her.
And so the other thing that's
fascinating about Armando
is Armando was a painter.
And Armando has a
fantastic ability
to bring forces, and
energy, and archetypes
through his consciousness
and then paint.
And so I've had a lot of
fun describing painting
and what happens with painting.
Because I don't think it's
dealt with enough in literature.
>>REGINA: It's not.
And it's a real central
theme in the book, as well,
this one particular painting.
But he has these other darker
urges that move through him,
and these incredible,
light-filled, unconscious
understandings that
just appear in his work.
So let's talk about that
confluence of these parts
in his being.
>> HAND CLOW: Yeah, well
he, himself personally,
is struggling with a force
that I consider to be the force
of the Archons.
This is a force
that's been identified
by John Lash,
which is definitely
a very reptilian force.
And so in his case, he comes
from a very good family.
And until he was sexually
abused when he was young,
he was a very, very
happy little boy.
So he's having a
tremendous struggle
with forces running through him
that he does not want to have.
He does not want to be
that kind of person.
And so then, he resolves
dealing with these forces going
through him by painting.
And so when we see
him painting and when
we see him becoming
an artist, that's
when we see this light
coming through him.
Because it's right
there within him.
But he's having this
tremendous personal struggle.
The main issue of this
trilogy is, how does evil
get into the world?
In other words, evil is a real
force, as far as we can tell.
But how does it
get into our world?
Because if we could understand
how evil comes into our world,
then, surely, we'd
have some ways
of transmuting it using therapy,
whatever we would choose to do.
But when I first started
this trilogy back in 2011,
it was only just beginning to be
clear what a big deal this is.
And now it's getting
bigger and bigger.
Because something
is actually going
on within systems of the
church that are actually
creating these events.
And I personally feel
that Pope Francis
is very concerned about this.
And I actually feel that he's
really trying to change things.
But he's having a big struggle.
>>REGINA: He's having a big
struggle himself with it.
Because it is such it's
stayed institution.
>> HAND CLOW: It's a
1,500-year creation.
To root that out, it's
an Earth-shattering and
psyche-shattering
experience for children.
And so in the book,
Armando isn't the only one
in dealing with other people--
>>REGINA: And secrecy around it.
>> HAND CLOW: Right.
And showing, also, what
happened in their childhood
and in their early
adulthood as a result
of having been sexually abused.
And I was sexually
abused when I was two
and a half to three years old.
And I don't mind saying that,
because I wrote about it.
I wrote a trilogy called "The
Mind Chronicles Trilogy."
And I've already revealed that.
And so I've gone
through this experience
personally and somehow
managed to get beyond it.
I sometimes wonder, who was
the angel that kept me going
and helped me go all
the way through this?
Because I made it
all the way through.
But I do feel that I have
unusual understanding
of this issue.
And then in my 30s, I almost
became a Jungian analyst.
I actually did some training.
And so there there's a
character in the book,
a wonderful character,
Lorenzo Giannini.
>>REGINA: I love him.
>> HAND CLOW: Yeah, I know.
I love Lorenzo.
He gets in the
third book, Regina--
which, as you know, I'm
writing it right now.
The first two are published.
And I'm writing the third one.
And Lorenzo ends up just
being a kingpin in the middle
of everybody's lives.
Because gradually, they
all start going to him.
>>REGINA: As a therapist.
>> HAND CLOW: Yeah.
And so having almost
become a Jungian analyst,
I've had the
wonderful opportunity
to have a Jungian
analyst in literature.
Because then, as
a reader, we get
to peek into what's going on
in these analytic sessions
with clients.
And I just think that's
the most fascinating.
>>REGINA: I agree
with you on that.
>> HAND CLOW: I think all of us
would like to be able to peek
through a keyhole
and have an earpiece,
so we could hear
what's going on.
>>REGINA: Well, he has a
kind of intuitive capacity,
too, where he can understand
when someone's coming up
on something and help them
look at it in a way that
might open even to past life.
>> HAND CLOW: That's right.
And then Lorenzo, like Carl Jung
himself, and many other Jungian
analysts, is also a major Magus.
Many, many Jungian
analysts are highly
trained in psychic and
magical techniques.
And so Lorenzo is unusually
gifted in that way because
of training that he's
received himself.
So he's not just an analyst.
He's also a wonderful magician.
So go back to "Ruby Crystal."
When I started writing
"Ruby Crystal," Ratzinger
was the Pope--
Benedict the 16th.
And I knew I had a book
when Ratzinger resigned,
which was an amazing thing.
I'd written a third
of the first book.
And Ratzinger resigned.
And so then, of course,
Francis was elected.
And so through the third book--
the second book, of course,
is dealing with Francis a
little bit, as you know.
But the third book, I'm
going deeply into what's
really going on with Francis.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>> HAND CLOW: Oh, yeah.
Because at this point,
now we have data.
I mean, he's saying
things like, there has
been a real problem in Chile.
And he went down to Chile
and actually got himself
into a real mess.
Because he didn't support
some of the people in Chile
who had been abused by
a priest and a bishop.
And then what happened
after he didn't
support that particular
issue was the Chileans just--
it was really wonderful.
They just rebelled en masse.
And then Francis sent in a
really fantastic investigator,
especially of bishops,
but of priestly abuse,
who happens to be the
archbishop from Malta.
And this is really interesting,
because Pietro Pierleoni, one
of the main characters all
the way through this trilogy,
is a member of the
order of Malta.
Now if I go back
it's five years ago--
and I basically go by guidance.
And the guidance told me that
Pietro was a major player
in the order of Malta.
I went, I don't think I'm
going to put this in the book.
What could this possibly mean?
Well, as it turns out,
there's a really big deal
going on with the Vatican
and the order of Malta.
>>REGINA: What's going on?
>> HAND CLOW: Well, there
is an issue of finally--
>>REGINA: Really cracking down.
>> HAND CLOW: Well, Francis
sent in the investigator,
this archbishop from Malta,
because he knew that he was
the most hardcore investigator.
And this archbishop went in.
And so he went and investigated
the situation in Chile
and came back to
Francis and said,
OK, Francis, here's the deal.
He gave him the 2,300-page
report on what was going
on in Chile.
And what's really incredible
to me and to everybody
else who's following what's
going on in the Vatican,
Francis not only said, hey,
wait a minute, I blew this.
He not only said, I
didn't see, but he said,
I now know that
I've been misguided.
And then the Pope
said, and I know
that I'm part of the
problem, because I
couldn't see what's going on.
So this is such a huge turn--
>>REGINA: What a revelation.
>> HAND CLOW: And this is
only like two months ago.
And so as I'm the third
book, I write on a timeline.
That's what I do with these.
I write them on a timeline.
So when I'm writing, it's the
same time as when I'm writing.
And so this has already
started to come in.
And I have no idea
where it's going to go.
But I do know one thing.
This pope is going to make
a significant difference.
And probably because
we know that we're
at that point in time where
significant things are
happening.
Things just aren't
getting stuffed.
And if you try to stuff it,
it doesn't work anymore.
Because you immediately
have an attack online.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
>> HAND CLOW: It's changing.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And it's interesting--
what you said
about garnering
American support,
so they keep money
flowing into the Vatican.
And in this documentary,
it was interesting,
because he's standing before--
I think it was Congress.
And he was basically,
in his usual way,
chastising them
for funding weapons
to, quote, "rebels"
in the Middle East
and saying that, in order to
achieve our goals on Earth,
this must stop.
It was like, they're, hm--
you know?
They didn't know quite
how to take that.
He does seem to be
sincerely trying
to draw attention to the
right things at this time,
even if his actions
have not yet fully been
made manifest to
address the problem.
So I bring it up, because this
is at the base of the story.
Secrecy around the
subject is at the base.
This incredible pain these
men have been living in
is at the base of their
characters in this story.
Now let's go into some
of the historical parts.
Because you have Simon,
who is a journalist.
You have all these beautiful
academic women, as well.
And they bring in the story
of the ancient Mandaeans,
for example.
>> HAND CLOW: The Age of what?
>>REGINA: Was it the Mandaeans?
>> HAND CLOW: Mandaeans.
>>REGINA: Mandaeans,
remnants of the Babylonians.
And now you're putting in
here, at the opening chapters,
timelines of what's happening
militarily around the world,
especially at the hands
of the American military.
>> HAND CLOW: That's right.
And also, Regina,
I'd like to say
that all of the
background information,
the historical timelines,
the history of religion,
all of that stuff is totally
factual and totally--
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>> HAND CLOW: And then the
characters and the storyline is
completely fictional.
>>REGINA: Yes.
But the historical
data is accurate.
Yes.
And so now, why did--
the Simon character--
why did you begin
weaving in these stories
of these various sects,
such as the Mandaeans?
And talk about them
for a moment and why
this matters at this point
in time in our history.
>> HAND CLOW: Well, when the
time timeline on the second
book occurred is basically
2014 through 2017.
And this is the period when
ISIS became really powerful,
and went in and invaded
the Yazidi territory,
and kidnapped all the
women, and everything,
and pulled off such horrible
knifings on television,
and all that.
And so one of the
purposes of this trilogy
is to track the timeline
historically from 2011
through 2020, because I believe
that this is the vortex turning
point into the Age of Aquarius
and out of the Age of Pisces.
So that type of
material is in the book
so that we could see
what's going away.
Because for example,
specifically, there
is a bunch of Christian sects--
and some people are familiar
with the Copts in Egypt.
And they also were a Christian
sect-- or the Mandaeans
and the Druze Christians.
And in the Middle East, there
are a group of Christian sects.
And basically,
unknown to Americans--
what these people
have been doing--
because they're Christians, and
they're people of the heart--
is they have basically
kept society together.
They've fed people.
They've housed people.
They've created medical
protection for people.
>>REGINA: All charitable acts.
>> HAND CLOW: All
throughout the Middle East.
And so when George Bush
went into Iraq in 2003,
what George Bush did is he
blew up the Middle East.
This is, of course, before
the timeline of the novel.
But he blew up the Middle East.
And then that
created a huge enmity
between the Shia and
the Sunni Muslim people.
And it has continued since then
in the war in Syria, et cetera.
>>REGINA: And how did
these other factions
get caught in the crossfire?
>> HAND CLOW: Well,
the Christian sects are
so important is they were
basically people of heart who
were kind of go-betweens between
the animosity between these two
segments of Islam.
And basically, they've gotten
completely flushed out.
They've been forced to leave.
And it's really
ironic, actually.
I come from Michigan.
I grew up in Michigan.
And Detroit, at this point,
has the largest gathering
of Middle Eastern Christians
in the United States.
It's just filled.
Because as you know, with the
collapse of the automobile
industry, Detroit, and Flint,
and Saginaw just basically
were vacant.
And it's all filled up with
Middle Eastern Christians.
And they have a really
vibrant culture there.
And these people are
going all over the world.
And they're really
wonderful people.
But I wanted to document that.
Because I think it's
such a-- speaking
of the change of the ages and
going out of the Age of Pisces.
The Age of Pisces was the
age of organized religion.
And so I wanted to give
information on this
this transformation
of the organized
religions of the Age of Pisces.
So that's why
that's in the book.
>>REGINA: And the Marcionites,
as well, another faction.
And also, you
mentioned the Yazidis,
But most people aren't clear
exactly who they are, except
for the role you just said as
providing this kind of grace,
or this kind of charity,
or something in the region
to keep the factions off
each other's backs a bit.
And is that true of all
of the different factions
of these various
Christian Arabic groups,
like Marsh Arabs, as you say?
>> HAND CLOW: No, some are.
Like, for instance, the Yazidis
are a 10,000-year-old early
religious sect.
They aren't really Christian.
And so what you
heard on the media
is they were devil worshippers.
Well, they're not
devil worshippers.
They're just simply early
really Pagan spiritual people.
And what most people
know about the Yazidis is
the sexual slavery
system that ISIS created,
which was actually a genocide
of the Yazidi people.
So I'm covering these
issues, because--
OK, here I am writing a
book that's documenting 2011
through 2020, which, as
you know at this point,
is one of the most complex
periods in human history.
And so my issue, as a novelist,
was selection of detail.
And so these issues
are in there to create
an understanding of some of the
things that are passing away.
Because these elements of
Christianity are passing away.
You can't go in and bomb
countries to flush everybody
out and make everybody
get on the road
without creating a
decimation of culture.
So that's what
we're experiencing.
And I'm mainly there
to document it.
>>REGINA: OK.
And in amongst this--
relatively modern
history, anyway--
you bring in the
Fatima prophecies.
>> HAND CLOW: That's right.
>>REGINA: Why?
>> HAND CLOW: OK.
Because the Fatima
prophecies are the prophecies
for the 20th through
21st century.
And the first two prophecies
of Fatima have been fulfilled.
>>REGINA: And please, tell
people what happened then
and what the prophecies are.
>> HAND CLOW: Most people
actually know about this.
This was three Portuguese
girls, two of them quite young.
And then one of them was seven,
or eight, or nine years old.
And they saw a bunch
of visions on the edge
of a hill in Portugal.
So the oldest one
wrote down the visions.
And then, as they
started to come true,
this information was
given to the popes.
>>REGINA: What was the
information coming true?
>> HAND CLOW: Well, this one
girl Portuguese girl wrote it
down.
The girls were put in
a nunnery after this.
But then the popes got a hold
of the Fatima prophecies.
And the first one
was of World War I.
And the second one
was of World War II.
And these are two things that
these little girls couldn't
possibly have known about.
And then the third
one is hidden.
And so, of course, I'm
using it in the novel.
Because the third one
has to do with the end
of the Age of Pisces
and going into Aquarius.
And the best speculations that
I've been able to find so far
are that the third
Fatima prophecy
is prophesying a apostasy,
which means the emptying
out of the faithful
out of the church.
And so the Catholic church
is tremendously diminished
at this point.
But I was a Catholic.
Once you're Catholic,
you're on the roles forever.
you're a Catholic forever.
So the actual
number of Catholics
who are actually practicing
and actually giving money
to the church is plummeting.
And Francis fears
this very much.
He's said so.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And we're going to visit some
other areas, too, historically.
OK, now let's talk about one
of the characters in this
who had an experience where
she flew out of her body
and ended up finding
herself having
an encounter with a group
of beings from Sirius.
And let's talk about how now we
the cosmological and ET element
starts coming into the story.
>> HAND CLOW: I think you
must be talking about Claudia.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>> HAND CLOW: OK.
And it's interesting,
because I don't
think I said it was Sirius.
But I think the way
I described it made
it sound like it was Sirius.
I'm going to have to go back--
>>REGINA: Yeah, take a peek.
>> HAND CLOW: I have
to go back and look.
Yeah.
Because I'm only getting
that explicit more or less
on the third book.
But Claudia meets Lorenzo
Giannini, the Jungian analyst.
And it's wonderful.
It's the only time
we allowed out
the signs of the characters.
People are always going,
what sign is that character?
Well, they're both Libras.
And Libras are always looking
for the ideal partner.
And they found each other.
Claudia is a very,
very complex character.
>>REGINA: Very complex
character-- but also,
very magnanimous character.
>> HAND CLOW: Oh, she's a
very, very loving person,
very honest, honest woman.
>>REGINA: Yes, very much so.
>> HAND CLOW: I
like her honesty.
>>REGINA: And so much of this
story is really revealing
the damage from the 5,000-year
period of patriarchy.
>> HAND CLOW: That's right.
That's right.
There is a superimposed
theme there
that I don't talk
about much in the book.
I actually put that more into
the context of the Age of Aries
and the Age of Pisces.
Now what am I talking about?
Well, the Age of Pisces
is like 160 BC to now.
Because now we're
going into Aquarius.
The Age of Aries before the
Age of Pisces is like 2400 BC
to 200 BC.
And the Age of Aries
is the age of war.
And then the Age of Pisces
is the age of wars for God.
And so at this point, these
are the central issues
that we have to
have to transform
and transcend on this planet.
And so I don't so much
go after the patriarchy.
Because the
patriarchy is simply--
we actually find that
we all know it, right?
We've had 5,000
years patriarchy.
But now, by fine tuning it
into the changes of the ages,
you get more of a sense of the
things that need to transform.
Because the change of the
ages from one to the next--
we're all really lucky
to be here right now
to be living at
the end of Pisces
and moving into Aquarius, even
though the chaos and confusion
is very, very hard on
all of us, because we're
going through this
incredible change
where everything in
culture, everything
is changing right now.
And as we're doing
this interview,
there's huge changes in
NATO, huge changes in lots
of global organizations.
Because that's what happens
at the end of an age.
>>REGINA: And one of
the things you say
is going to be required to
start healing this and reversing
the energy field of that past
age or epoch period of history
is going to be the
coming together
and the re-acknowledgment
of feminine principles,
and energy, and the merging
of the masculine and feminine
again.
>> HAND CLOW: That's right.
And then I think a
deeper and more important
contribution from me--
it's in "Aquarian Age."
And then I'm working on it even
more so in the current book--
is the issue of the division
between the religions
of Abraham.
Now the religions of
Abraham are Judaism, Islam,
and Christianity.
And what has happened
is the religions--
basically Islam
and Christianity,
in particular-- have been
at each other's throats.
And yet, in the novel,
we're going back
2,000 years ago to what
happened when Jesus
or when Christ was
on this planet.
And I'm getting a hold
of the things that
created the division.
Because I actually believe that,
if people can see the divisions
clearly, people are going to
stop fighting with each other.
And I think this is
what it's going to take
to end the wars for God.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And this is a big part of the
book that comes up repeatedly.
And last time I saw
you, which was you
know in British Columbia, you
turned me on to the book--
was it called "The
Jesus Family Tomb?"
>> HAND CLOW: Yeah.
That's by Simcha Jacobovici.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And this book has a
lot of implications.
Now you talk about the book
in the book you've written.
This does come up.
But why don't you just go
ahead and give the viewers
a snippet of the significance
of this particular book?
>> HAND CLOW: Yeah.
This is a very
significant theme.
The theme is the
issue of the discovery
of the family tomb of the
family of Jesus back in 1980.
And one of the reasons the book
is mentioned is, in the novels,
whenever I actually really
cover significant research
by a person, I always like
to acknowledge people.
So one of my characters
just said, hey,
you got to read that
book, because it
says blah, blah, blah.
So that's why we're
talking about the book.
But the theme behind
it, which is actually
the work of other authors
besides Simcha Jacobovici--
it's a hard name.
>>REGINA: It is.
That's why I didn't
try to say it.
[LAUGHING]
>> HAND CLOW: And
then James Cameron,
the director of "Avatar," made
a film with Simcha Jacobovici,
which viewers may have seen
back in 2007 called "The Jesus
Family Tomb," where they
actually went down with cameras
and went into the tomb.
Well, the reason this is
such a significant theme--
>>REGINA: Yet, almost
no one heard about it.
Whenever I talk to people,
they say, what film?
What book?
>> HAND CLOW: Yeah.
Well, this is an
interesting thing.
Because one of the
things that I love doing
is finding something
that's really significant
and then noticing that,
even though a whole lot
of other people hear about
it, it immediately goes blank.
Because when people hear
something that goes radically
against what they've always
been taught to believe,
their brains tend to go blank.
So the reason there's a
big blank on this one,
even though there's been
actually a huge amount
of publicity about
it, is that people
have been so trained to
believe in the Resurrection.
That's what happened.
When Jesus died, he
got resurrected, right?
Well, the only problem
is, there was a tomb.
And his body was in it.
His wife, Mary
Magdalene, the body
of a child named Judah, who
was probably their son--
>>REGINA: Brother.
>> HAND CLOW: Brothers, that's
right-- a lot of people,
for example.
Jesus had seven siblings.
And all kinds of people
think that Jesus didn't
have any brothers or sisters.
Because of course,
his mother, Mary,
couldn't have possibly had sex.
So there's this immaculate
conception still going on.
>>REGINA: Couldn't have had
seven immaculate conceptions.
Yeah.
>> HAND CLOW: Yeah.
So what happened basically
is-- the real story
is Jesus was a real person
and a really fine person,
as far as I can tell.
A whole man, a father--
why can't a great spiritual
teacher be a father
and be a husband, after all?
>>REGINA: Good question.
>> HAND CLOW: Well, why not?
I admire a person more when they
have a really beautiful family
life, as well as their teaching.
So the tomb was
discovered in 1980.
There's been a huge
attempt by the Vatican
and by the Jewish antiquities
authorities to cover this up.
But there's so much
evidence that's
been established and proven.
And if people want
to read my novels,
they may want to pick up
some of this information
and start digging
more deeply in it.
Because all I can do is present
characters who talk about this.
>>REGINA: Well, that's why
I wanted to bring it up.
Maybe some people
can get a jump on it
before even the
third book comes out.
>> HAND CLOW: Yeah, yeah.
And this may be, possibly,
one of the greatest
archaeological discoveries
of the last 100 years.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
Now we can understand
why the Vatican church
would want to cover it up.
But why would the Israeli
Department of Antiquities
want to cover it up?
>> HAND CLOW: Now that is
a complicated question,
which I could give
you a long answer.
But I think it
would be too long.
But the Jewish authorities, just
like Christians authorities--
they also have a fairy story--
for example, things
like the Exodus.
It's not true.
It's just a fairy story.
And so when things come
up archaeologically,
when discoveries are made that
go against a prevailing fairy
story, people start fighting it.
But the reasons that the
Jews have been hiding this
are very complex.
>>REGINA: So moving on
from Jacobovici's work,
we go back to the story and
Armando and this painting
that's flowing through him.
He's obsessed with doing
this painting, which becomes
a big revelation at the end.
And it really has to do
with the sacred union that's
flowing through him and the
need for this sacred union--
again, what we were
talking about earlier.
>> HAND CLOW: Yeah.
Well, imagine this.
He was a big Roman and
European famous painter,
mostly famous for
painting triptyches,
with the Upper World, the Middle
World, and Lower World in them,
like we see in--
>>REGINA: Like Dante.
>> HAND CLOW: --Medieval
art like Dante, exactly.
And then suddenly, he couldn't
paint his normal painting
anymore.
And he just became obsessed with
bringing through this image.
And then it's
described in detail
how he does it, which
is really fascinating.
But it's an image of Mary
Magdalene on the ground
and reaching up for Christ,
who is basically ascending.
He's on the verge of taking off.
And basically, what happens
further on in the novel is
it becomes clearer that the
people who see this painting
experience the real
presence of Christ.
And that's always been an
issue in Catholic religion,
Christian religion, through
actual, real Christ.
>>REGINA: But it was also
through this entanglement
of love with this woman.
>> HAND CLOW: Well,
that's how it turns out.
And as it turns out, his
version of the real presence
involves him being in
love with his wife.
And so this is a whole
big shift in the meaning
of the real presence.
And so it's a major theme,
of course, going all the way
through the book.
And the interesting thing about
that to me-- now, here I am.
I write on the timeline.
Like, if it's June 2014,
what's going on outside
the characters is
on the timeline.
So just exactly when Armando was
able to execute that painting
and bring it in,
a amazing painting
appeared on the world scene
called "Salvador Mundi"
by Leonardo da Vinci.
And this is a painting of Christ
that was finally authenticated
after 500 years of arguing about
whether it's really Leonardo
or not.
So finally, it
was authenticated.
And a Saudi prince fought
it for $45 million.
And suddenly, the world was
able to see this painting.
And of course, I
saw images of it.
And it's just absolutely the
most astonishing painting.
>>REGINA: Tell us about it.
>> HAND CLOW: What it is is
just simply the face of Christ.
And when you look at it, you
can see all of the dimensions
and all of the cosmic realms
relating to his image.
It's incredible.
But it came in just when
Armando's painting came in.
And I have been
having this experience
all the way through
the trilogy of things
happening as I'm
writing that actually--
>>REGINA: You get a download.
And then this shows up in the
international arena somewhere.
>> HAND CLOW: Yeah.
In other words, there's
some kind of pick-up
that I'm having.
I pick things up that way.
That's how actually I trust.
Because as I'm in
the third book now,
the degree to which I have
to trust is really intense.
Because now I'm really dealing
with complicated material.
>>REGINA: You are Yes.
Well, OK, so now passing
on from what you just
talked about and this
painting that Armando's done,
there is a position in the
book that matrimonial sects
has a redemptive quality.
>> HAND CLOW: That's right.
>>REGINA: And talk about
this for a little bit.
>> HAND CLOW: Yeah.
At the same time in the middle
of all this stuff coming
through, a book has
come through called--
it's a book based
on a manuscript that
was written in the
first or second century
AD called "Joseph and Aseneth."
And this stuff is
really complicated.
But it's not that
complicated in the book.
The characters just simply say--
>>REGINA: Not in
your book, it's not.
>> HAND CLOW: No.
The characters simply say, I
heard this had been translated.
And Sarah Appel is a
patristic scholar, early
Christian scholar.
And Claudia is a seeker
of spiritual wisdom.
So they talk about the
meaning of this book.
And what goes on in
this book is this book
is a story of the surrogacy
of Jesus and Mary Magdalene.
In other words, they used to
do this thousands of years
ago, where they would
have a story of someone
like Joseph in Aseneth.
But what it actually is
is a contemporary story
of Jesus and Mary Magdalene.
So Jacobovici got a hold of--
he heard about this early text.
He went to work with a
scholar from Toronto, Barrie
Wilson, who is a very famous
New Testament scholar.
And they did modern
translations,
which means all kinds
of special imaging work
with ancient manuscripts
of the original manuscript
in order to get this story out.
And it's the story
of Jesus falling
in love with Mary Magdalene and
the story of their marriage.
And it's beautiful.
>>REGINA: And thus, it has
the redemptive qualities
but within that.
>> HAND CLOW: Yeah, well,
it's just beautiful.
So this is another
element coming in.
And what I'm doing is as
a writer and a scholar
is I'm looking for all
of these elements that
are happening now.
Because there's
major breakthroughs
that are happening now.
It's like a wave.
It's like a cascade.
>>REGINA: Like, after the lights
had been out for a very long
period of time-- which brings us
to the next subject, which is,
a couple of times in
here, you bring up the--
it's just a quick reference
to the 18th Dynasty.
And why did you go
to the 18th Dynasty?
In the book it says
because these people
were open to many dimensions
of knowledge at the time.
But why bring that up?
>> HAND CLOW: Yeah.
I brought it up specifically
because of the issue
of the change of the ages.
Because before
the Age of Aries--
now that's 4000 to
2000 BC, basically--
we've got the Age of Taurus.
And we've got an
age that is still
alive in the 18th Dynasty.
The Egyptian Pharaonic
cultural period
is really about
3,000 years long.
And the 18th Dynasty was
the last dynasty in Egypt
that still really
had the secret codes.
And so then--
>>REGINA: The lights
went out after that.
>> HAND CLOW: Well, they did.
But on the other hand,
we have plenty of proof
that Jesus was
initiated in Egypt.
And certainly, Mary Magdalene
was a major initiate.
And so if we go back to
the time from 0 to 200 BC
with the Gnostics and different
great spiritual teachers
of the times, there
were still people
who were in touch with
this really ancient wisdom.
And by the way, there
still are today.
The Masons are still
in touch with it.
The Templar are still
in touch with this.
So I brought it into the novel.
Because really, what I'm
doing with this trilogy
is I'm doing a little
bit of teaching
about how the ages change.
Because if we go
back 2,000 years,
back to the time when we
transited into Pisces,
there still were
spiritual schools,
like Pythagorean mystery schools
and tonic mystery schools,
who were teaching
people about how
to handle it when
one age goes away
and the new one is coming in.
And don't you think we
need that at this point?
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>> HAND CLOW: Judging by
what's happening out there.
>>REGINA: And you are providing
some guidance in this.
>> HAND CLOW: I'm doing that.
And other people are doing
that, too, of course.
Because we need guidance.
Because the vortex point, the
shift from one to the other,
it's like being in a tornado.
And then I'll give
you one little hint
about the third
book, if you want it?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>> HAND CLOW: OK.
In the period when we transited
out of Aries into Pisces,
the key figure who
really stripped away
a lot of the old stuff
and created something new
is Saint Paul.
And so Christianity is actually
really Pauline Christianity.
It's not really authentic
Christianity, which
would be Jewish Christianity.
And that's, of course,
covered in detail in the book.
But I just knew
that covering that--
Saint Paul as a
changeover person--
I knew it was important.
And so fortunately,
as I go further along,
I did pick the right pieces.
>>REGINA: You did.
And you went further in the day.
And you had the
followers of James,
which was a completely different
expression of Christianity,
the Ebionites,
>> HAND CLOW: Yeah, the
Ebionites or the Ebionites
in Nazarene.
There's many, many
names for them.
And these are the
spiritual Jews of the time.
Then Jesus came.
And Jesus was a Jew, of course.
And then they converted
to Christianity.
And they started creating
early Christian churches
and Christian sects.
And that's why
Marcion is important--
>>REGINA: Is that
the John the Baptist?
>> HAND CLOW: --in
the "Ruby Crystal."
>>REGINA: Who were the
followers of John the Baptist?
Was that the Marcionites?
>> HAND CLOW: No, the Marcion
comes along basically almost
100 AD.
He comes along even
after Saint Paul.
And Marcion was
working with a lot
of the issues Jewish Christians
were working with, which was--
it's simple.
This all sounds
really complicated.
It's really simple.
The issue was we got to get
rid of the old God, Yahweh.
Because Yahweh basically
is a God of the law
and a God of war.
Because Jesus was
certainly a God of love.
And so that issue is going to
come up as we go into Aquarius.
Who is going to be the spiritual
teacher of the Age of Aquarius?
So this is going to be an issue.
And it'll develop over a
couple of hundred years.
So the Marcionites--
I covered them extensively,
because they're
considered to be the
greatest heretics
in the history of Christianity.
But if you go back to
150 BC, the Marcionites
had more bishops and more
parishes on this planet
than the Roman Catholics did.
And the Roman Catholics managed
to excommunicate Marcion
and edge him out.
>>REGINA: Because he
rejected the wrathful God.
>> HAND CLOW: Basically,
because they wanted the power.
It's always like that.
>>REGINA: Yes.
They did, but he
was rejecting, yes.
Yeah, so it's interesting.
Because you get into these famed
characters of the day, James,
Paul-- who was Saul--
John the Baptist.
So all of that is
part of the framework
of this ancient story
in this age that's
now drawing to a close.
And you also write about the
fall of Atlantis a little bit.
And so let's talk
about that part
of the backdrop of the story.
And people can see.
This is a huge amount of
historical information coming
in through these
characters, each
with their unique expertise.
>> HAND CLOW: But it comes
through in conversation.
>>REGINA: It does.
It's all conversation.
It's easy.
>> HAND CLOW: Yeah, and another
thing that was really fun about
writing this is there's always
a couple of characters who know
it all and can talk
about it intelligently.
And there's always at
least one or two characters
who go, but wait.
I don't understand.
What do you mean by that?
>>REGINA: Which draws out--
>> HAND CLOW: Yeah.
So the reader is
never left abandoned.
There's always a
character who knows
less than the reader knows
so that we can bring you up
to snuff.
>>REGINA: The Atlantis
part of the story.
>> HAND CLOW: Yeah.
So actually, the
trilogy actually
is good to go back
to 19,000 years ago.
It's going back into
the Paleolithic era.
But as far as the issue
of Atlantis is concerned,
Armando has a really interesting
complex that you might not
have picked out by reading.
This is one of those
backdrop things in a book
that you go, oh, I see
that that's behind that.
And what happened with
Armando is something
that happens with everybody
who experiences sexual trauma,
as far as I can tell, which is--
I've written another
book years ago called
"Catastrophobia," which is now
titled "Awakening the Planetary
Mind."
The publisher changed the title.
"Catastrophobia"
covers 20,000 years
of human history and
deals with a cataclysm
that occurred on our planet
around 11,500 or 12,000 years
ago, where our planet was
basically blown to smithereens.
And this, in culture, is
known as the Fall of Atlantis.
And of course,
everybody duns that.
But it's a true story.
And so when people
experience abuse--
which, of course,
Armando did when
he was only seven years old--
what happens is the kind
of retrogressive traumatic
complexes that all of us are
carrying in our cellular memory
is brought to the surface.
And so Armando's father,
who is his teacher,
knows that he has
to help Armando deal
with the story of
the cataclysm as he's
healing from his sexual trauma.
And this is going to be a major
theme in the third book, where
people are going to be really
hitting the wall on this one.
Because, as we go into
Aquarius, clearing
the memories of the
cataclysm and clearing
the emotional trauma--
>>REGINA: The mass trauma.
>> HAND CLOW: --the mass trauma.
And so we're all in the middle
of a mass trauma awakening.
>>REGINA: But at
the same time, you
insert another story, which is
that the elites conveniently
created this story that man was
responsible for the cataclysm,
which has created
a very deep guilt
complex in those who would
be privy to that information.
Guilt and that those
kinds of feelings
make us more controllable,
more exploitable.
>> HAND CLOW: That's right.
So we have the cataclysm.
And then the elite comes
in and takes control.
Because they had more power
all the way through 8000, 6000,
5000, 3000 BC or whatever,
then the patriarchy builds up.
And one of the things
that's important
is to make people feel
like they caused it.
Because then they feel
guilty, and you get control.
>>REGINA: And you know,
Barbara, eight years ago, I
was regressed by Delores Cannon.
I was thinking I was
going to something
I had a little heart
heartache over.
Boom, I end up in Atlantis
and not knowing which era,
since it seemed to have--
>> HAND CLOW: It has
a number of stages.
>>REGINA: It had a number of
stages of its destruction.
>> HAND CLOW: That's right.
>>REGINA: And I wasn't really
clear on that part of it,
except for what happened
in this event, which
was extremely visceral, more
visceral than being here.
And in it, what
I was doing was--
there was a certain
amount of blame going on.
Because I understood
that there were
people working with
technology to do something.
And this was becoming
extraordinarily destabilized.
I was working with natural
energies along with other women
to help stabilize what
was going on at the time.
Now when the event happened--
this was the final day before
the event--
I started noticing something.
And I said, this is interesting.
There are spacecraft hovering in
the near atmosphere over here.
They seem to be doing something.
And maybe they're taking certain
people out of here or whatnot.
Well, this same
story was invalidated
by two other people who had
had the same experience.
So I thought, OK, I
wasn't making things up.
And it's into Delores' book,
"Convoluted Universe Two."
But what happened was
this awful feeling
of having lost so
much that we would
be completely traumatized.
And I kept saying
to her, we're going
to sleep for a
very long time now.
And we're going to sleep.
And I was crying at this point.
Later on, I talked
with some other people
who experienced this.
And this is what came up.
And this is why I
resonate so strongly.
I was cloistered.
So I wasn't really
clear what these people
were doing technologically.
I just knew that things
were becoming more and more
destabilized, so to speak.
And I had kind of a--
in this time, a blaming of that.
I don't know if I
did at that time--
and in this time, a blaming.
And it was said, no, these
were natural forces that
were building up over a
very long period of time.
And I could see,
we had been trying
to work with that
energy for generations.
It was building up over a
very long period of time.
And they were trying to use
technology to subdue it.
>> HAND CLOW: And this is what's
going on now, isn't it, Regina?
>>REGINA: Isn't it?
[LAUGHING]
And I bring it up, because I
thought we were to blame, too.
And we were not.
>> HAND CLOW: Yeah.
And so, right now
on this planet,
is another reason I
think understanding
this transition is so important.
Because I think the
transition to Aquarius
is going to be different.
I do not see major
cataclysmic destruction
as you go into Aquarius.
But we're certainly
going to be dealing
with a lot of climate change
and a lot of cyclical change.
And there are going to be
cataclysmic things that
happen--
nothing like what
happened before.
>>REGINA: Nothing
like that, yeah.
>> HAND CLOW: So I'm
covering it in the book.
In the third book,
I'm going more deeply
into what's going
on now in terms
of how to handle what's
actually happening now.
Because it's really starting
to roll at this point.
>>REGINA: And we only have
a couple minutes left.
But a lot of this takes
place in the backdrop
of the city of Siena, which
is an interesting city.
I felt, when I was in Siena--
I love the Duomo.
It's so beautiful.
But I just felt a heaviness
and darkness there.
>> HAND CLOW: This
is a heaviness there.
>>REGINA: -- that I
didn't want to stay in.
And so my son and I beat it out
of town after a couple of days.
And I was so surprised
to see, in the book,
you write about the energies
of the city of Siena.
>> HAND CLOW:
Yeah, that's right.
Because the energies of
Siena are very, very major
and also Orvieto--
more so in the third book.
Because there's this issue
of Calleman's midline
and being a major
geological change--
>>REGINA: Carl Calleman, yes.
>> HAND CLOW: --on the planet.
Carl Calleman, right.
And it goes right through Italy.
And it goes right
through this region.
It goes through Rome,
Orvieto, and Siena.
So what you're feeling really
is the energy of the midline.
But in Siena, there's
also some extra energy,
which I'm going into
more in the third book.
You're right, though.
You picked up on it.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah, well,
I'm super energy sensitive.
And I love the fact
that I could have access
to so much information.
Because of what I
do for a living,
so much of what I've
already been exposed to,
true-- some new, but all
brought together in one place
through these intelligent,
savvy characters.
So you did it in a
very effective way.
And at the very end of the book,
many revelations have come up.
They're all together.
And they say, we
must meet again.
Boom.
And I'm thinking,
oh, I can't wait
to see Barbara and pick her
brain at dinner about what
the new storyline is all about.
>> HAND CLOW: I don't
know where it's going.
I'm just letting it happen.
And it's happening.
I don't even know
what the title is.
>>REGINA: Well, I'm really
glad you took up fiction.
That's all I can say.
>> HAND CLOW: Well, thank you.
A lot of people have
rebelled against this.
But gradually, piece by piece,
they're starting to realize--
like, I'm not only
doing the same thing,
but I'm now doing it in
a multi-dimensional way.
Because the ultimate effect
of taking this information in
is you're starting to
activate different dimensions
in your consciousness.
And I firmly believe, as
a teacher and a healer,
that we must do this now.
This is the most important.
>>REGINA: We must.
>> HAND CLOW: We talked about
that in the interview yesterday
about why that's so important.
>>REGINA: We did.
And we have to live this
reality through our bodies.
>> HAND CLOW: People want Gerry
and I to show up and just teach
workshops for everybody.
But we can't teach
workshops for everybody,
although we're going
to do what we can.
So that's why I wrote a
fictional trilogy in order
to help people experience
multi-dimensionality
through these characters.
>>REGINA: Indeed.
Well, you've done a lovely job.
And I can't wait
for the third one.
>> HAND CLOW: Thank you.
>>REGINA: What year is the
third one coming out, 2019?
>> HAND CLOW: No, because the
timeline's 2018 through 2020.
>>REGINA: So does it
have to come out in 2020?
>> HAND CLOW: It has
to come out in 2021.
>>REGINA: OK.
>> HAND CLOW: Because we've
got to finish the timeline.
>>REGINA: OK, so we have
a couple of years to wait.
OK.
[LAUGHING]
Again, thank you, Barbara.
As always, it's absolutely
wonderful sitting with you.
>> HAND CLOW: Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: Again, the name
of Barbara's new novel
is "Revelations of the
Aquarian Age," which
introduced a great deal
of little-known esoteric
knowledge, as you just heard.
You can find it at major
booksellers, as well as
the previous book, "Revelations
of the Ruby Crystal."
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."